# Project-530
90 MW Sugarcane Bagasse based co-generation Energy BEVAP Bioenergia

Country: Brazil

District: João Pinheiro

State: Minas Gerais

Zip Code: 38770-000

Latitude: -17.0622º

Longitude: -46.1836º 
_____________
Scale of the project activity Large Scale

Project participants
BEVAP BIOENERGIA (OWNER)

Host Party BRAZIL

Applied methodologies and standardized baselines
CDMUNFCCC Methodology ACM0006:
Electricity and heat generation from biomass
(Ver.16) &UCR Standard for Emission Factor

Sectoral scopes 01 Energy industries (Renewable/Non- Renewable
Sources)
__________
The project is composed of a sugar cane plant, located in the city of João Pinheiro in the state of Minas Gerais,
Brazil.

The Bevap project was born with 3 machines registered with Bevap, with powers of 25/25/30 MW
(see ordinance PRT2009126 MME).

Subsequently, Bevap decided to create Enervale, which, in lending, acquired the right to use the
condensation machine (UG3), purchasing steam from Bevap.

Subsequently, the UG1 turbine underwent retrofitting, changing its power from 25 MW to 30 MW
With this, they established the two generating UTEs, granted by resolutions REA20112925 (Bevap
– 60MW) and REA20123439 (Enervale – 30 MW).

The purpose of the activity is to generate electricity using renewable biomass (sugarcane bagasse,
which is the residue from the juice extraction process for the production of ethanol and sugar), and,
thus, reduce GHG emissions by displacing fossil fuel in grid-based electricity.
It is a grid-connected biomass cogeneration power plant with a high-pressure steam-turbine
configuration. The high-pressure boilers are fired by bagasse to generate steam which in turn is fed
to the steam turbine to generate power. The power co-generation units generate biomass-based power
for captive consumption of the sugar plant and the sale of surplus power to the Brazilian electricity
grid.

The UCR Project activity is the construction and operation of power plants/units that use renewable
energy sources and supplies renewable electricity to the grid. The UCR project activity is thus the
displacement of electricity that would be provided to the grid by more-GHG-intensive means and
provides long-term benefits to the mitigation of climate change. The UCR project activity qualifies
under the environmental additional positive list of pre-approved project types under the UCR carbon
incentive model for issuance of voluntary carbon credits.

The activity currently consumes more of 800 thousand tons of biomass for generation clean energy
and produces more than 270,000 MWh of electrical energy per year and, of this total, and 150,000
MWh are injected into the Brazilian electrical system, enough to supply a city of approximately
69,000 inhabitants, and thereby contributes to climate change mitigation efforts.

________________
Unit/ Installed Capacity /Location /Commercial Operation Date
________________
UTE Bioenergética Vale do Paracatu (BEVAP), UG01/ 30 MW /João Pinheiro, Minas Gerais /February 15, 2011
_________
UTE Bioenergética Vale do Paracatu (BEVAP), UG02 /30 MW/ João Pinheiro, Minas Gerais/ October 29, 2011
________________
UTE Enervale/ 30 MW /João Pinheiro, Minas Gerais /July 26, 2012
_______________
PRIOR HISTORY
___________
The project activity has not applied to any other GHG program for generation or issuance of carbon
offsets or credits for the said crediting period.

Bevap Bionenergia is also certified by Renovabio, which is Brazilian National Biofuels Program,
created to encourage the production and use of sustainable biofuels, such as ethanol and biodiesel,
replacing gasoline and diesel, which are more polluting fossil fuels. It certifies companies based on
the environmental efficiency of production, allowing them to issue CBIOs (Decarbonization Credits),
which can be sold. Although RenovaBio and the carbon credit certification system have similar
objectives when it comes to decarbonization, they are different programs and work in different ways,
with their own regulations and mechanisms.

The CBIO is a financial instrument generated exclusively by the production of biofuels, in this case,
ethanol. On the other hand, the carbon credits proposed in this project are generated by surplus
renewable energy exported to the electricity grid.
- Law No. 13,576/2017 (RenovaBio Law, https://www.planalto.gov.br/ccivil_03/_ato2015-
2018/2017/lei/l13576.htm): Establishes the National Biofuels Policy, focusing on the production
and use of biofuels, without mentioning the generation of carbon credits for surplus energy.
- ANP Resolution No. 758/2018 (https://atosoficiais.com.br/anp/resolucao-n-758-2018-
regulamenta-a-certificacao-da-producao-ou-importacao-eficiente-de-biocombustiveis-de-que-tratao-art-18-da-lei-no-13-576-de-26-de-dezembro-de-2017-e-o-credenciamento-de-firmasinspetoras?origin=instituicao&q=Resolu%C3%A7%C3%A3o%20ANP%20n%C2%BA%20758/20
18): Regulates the certification of efficient production of biofuels, treating electrical energy as a coproduct, but not as a direct source of CBIOs.
- Technical Note nº 62/2018/SBQ/ANP: Details the methodology for calculating CBIOs,
reaffirming that exported electrical energy is considered only as a co-product.

In the Renovabio program, the RenovaCalc tool is used, which uses exported energy as one of the
factors to calculate the plant's Energy-Environmental Efficiency Rating (NEEA), that is an indicator
of the efficiency of the production process, specifically in the industrial phase. A higher NEEA
indicates a more efficient process, which generally results in a lower carbon intensity. Impact on
CBIOs: the amount of CBIOs generated is based on the difference between the carbon intensity of
the biofuel and that of the equivalent fossil fuel. The lower the carbon intensity of the biofuel, the
greater the difference compared to fossil fuel, resulting in more CBIOs generated.

Role of Exported Energy in generating CBIOs:
Exported electrical energy is considered a beneficial co-product. It "credits" the process, effectively
reducing the carbon intensity attributed to the biofuel. This is because exported renewable energy
replaces potentially more carbon-intensive energy on the grid.

If a plant exports more renewable energy, its NEEA tends to improve. A better NEEA generally
results in a lower carbon intensity for the ethanol produced. With lower carbon intensity, the gap
with fossil fuel increases. Consequently, more CBIOs are generated per unit of biofuel produced.
Whereas the impact of exported energy on the amount of CBIOs is generally marginal compared to
other factors such as agricultural and industrial efficiency, exported energy is just one of the many
factors considered in the NEEA calculation. However, to adopt a conservative position and avoid
double counting, percentage of Carbon Credits will be deducted under UCR in the same
proportion in which the exported energy boosted the generation of CBIOs, in the respective periods
in which they were generated.
